私の毎日の活動 / わたしのまいにちのかつどう

Morning Routine (朝の活動 / あさのかつどう)

Q1: 何時に起きますか？
(What time do you wake up?)
A1: 私は6時に起きます。
(I wake up at 6 a.m.)
Q2: 起きた後で、何をしますか？
(What do you do after waking up?)
A2: 起きた後で、顔を洗って、歯を磨きます。
(After waking up, I wash my face and brush my teeth.)
Q3: 朝ごはんを食べますか？
(Do you eat breakfast?)
A3: はい、食べます。パンと卵を食べます。
(Yes, I do. I eat bread and eggs.)
A3 (Alternative): いいえ、朝ごはんを食べません。時間がありません。
(No, I don’t eat breakfast. I don’t have time.)
Q4: 朝、運動をしますか？
(Do you exercise in the morning?)
A4: はい、ジョギングをします。
(Yes, I go jogging.)
A4 (Alternative): いいえ、運動をしません。
(No, I don’t exercise.)

Work or School (仕事や学校 / しごとやがっこう)

Q5: 何時に家を出ますか？
(What time do you leave home?)
A5: 8時半に家を出ます。
(I leave home at 8:30.)
Q6: どうやって学校や仕事に行きますか？
(How do you go to school or work?)
A6: 電車で行きます。
(I go by train.)
A6 (Alternative): 自転車で行きます。
(I go by bicycle.)
A6 (Alternative): 歩いて行きます。
(I go on foot.)
Q7: 仕事は何時に始まりますか？
(What time does your work start?)
A7: 仕事は9時に始まります。
(My work starts at 9 a.m.)
Q8: 仕事は何時に終わりますか？
(What time does your work end?)
A8: 仕事は5時に終わります。
(My work ends at 5 p.m.)
Q9: 学校で何を勉強しますか？
(What do you study at school?)
A9: 日本語を勉強します。
(I study Japanese.)
A9 (Alternative): 数学と英語を勉強します。
(I study math and English.)

Lunch Break (昼休み / ひるやすみ)

Q10: 昼ごはんはどこで食べますか？
(Where do you eat lunch?)
A10: 会社の食堂で食べます。
(I eat in the company cafeteria.)
A10 (Alternative): 家で食べます。
(I eat at home.)
A10 (Alternative): レストランで食べます。
(I eat at a restaurant.)
Q11: 昼ごはんに何を食べますか？
(What do you eat for lunch?)
A11: カレーライスを食べます。
(I eat curry rice.)
A11 (Alternative): サンドイッチを食べます。
(I eat a sandwich.)

Evening Routine (夜の活動 / よるのかつどう)

Q12: 仕事の後で、何をしますか？
(What do you do after work?)
A12: 家に帰って、晩ごはんを食べます。
(I go home and eat dinner.)
A12 (Alternative): スーパーで買い物をします。
(I go shopping at the supermarket.)
Q13: 晩ごはんに何を食べますか？
(What do you eat for dinner?)
A13: 魚とご飯を食べます。
(I eat fish and rice.)
A13 (Alternative): パスタを食べます。
(I eat pasta.)
Q14: 晩ごはんの後で、何をしますか？
(What do you do after dinner?)
A14: テレビを見ます。それから、本を読みます。
(I watch TV. Then, I read a book.)
A14 (Alternative): シャワーを浴びます。それから、寝ます。
(I take a shower. Then, I go to bed.)

Free Time (自由時間 / じゆうじかん)

Q15: 休みの日に何をしますか？
(What do you do on your day off?)
A15: 映画を見ます。それから、友達と遊びます。
(I watch a movie. Then, I hang out with my friends.)
A15 (Alternative): 家でゆっくりします。
(I relax at home.)
Q16: 趣味は何ですか？
(What is your hobby?)
A16: 私の趣味は音楽を聞くことです。
(My hobby is listening to music.)
A16 (Alternative): 私の趣味は絵を描くことです。
(My hobby is drawing pictures.)

Night Routine (夜の活動 / よるのかつどう)

Q17: 何時にお風呂に入りますか？
(What time do you take a bath?)
A17: 9時にお風呂に入ります。
(I take a bath at 9 p.m.)
Q18: 何時に寝ますか？
(What time do you go to bed?)
A18: 10時に寝ます。
(I go to bed at 10 p.m.)
Q19: 寝る前に何をしますか？
(What do you do before going to bed?)
A19: 本を読みます。それから、歯を磨きます。
(I read a book. Then, I brush my teeth.)
A19 (Alternative): スマホを見ます。
(I look at my smartphone.)



upcoming topics
===•••••••••===

私の日本での生活 / わたしのにほんでのせいかつ


私の日本語の理解 / わたしのにほんごのりかい

日本の文化を学びたい / にほんのぶんかをまなびたい

日本人は外国人が好きですか？ / にほんじんはがいこくじんがすきですか？

私の好きな日本の食べ物 / わたしのすきなにほんのたべもの

私の趣味 / わたしのしゅみ

日本の第一印象 / にほんのだいいちいんしょう

日本で行きたい場所 / にほんでいきたいばしょ

なぜ日本語を学びたいですか？ / なぜにほんごをまなびたいですか？